Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest Defect diagnostic software.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest Defect.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

openSeaChest is a comprehensive, easy-to-use command line diagnostic tool that
helps you quickly determine the health and status of your Seagate storage
product. It includes several tests that will examine the physical media on your
Seagate, Samsung or Maxtor disk drive.

openSeaChest_Defect is a utility to display standardized device defect lists
and create flagged or psuedo uncorrectable errors for testing purposes.
When creating flagged or psuedo uncorrectable errors, this will cause data loss.
These commands are meant to test a drive's defect handling capabilities as well
as how a file system may react to defects on the device.

Tests and commands which are completely data safe will run on any disk drive.
Tests and commands which change the drive (like firmware download or data
erasure or setting the maximum capacity, etc) are limited to Seagate disk
drives (this includes Seagate, Maxtor, Samsung and LaCie). Be careful using
openSeaChest because some of the features, like the data erasure options, will
cause data loss. Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.

If this is your drive, you should always keep a current backup of your
important data.

Important note: Many tests in this tool directly reference storage device data
sectors, also known as Logical Block Addresses (LBA). Test arguments may
require a starting LBA or an LBA range.  The predefined variable 'maxLBA'
refers to the last sector on the drive.  Many older SATA and SAS storage
controllers (also known as Host Bus Adapters [HBA]) have a maximum addressable
limit of 4294967295 [FFFFh] LBAs hard wired into their design.  This equates to
2.1TB using 512 byte sectors.  This also means accessing an LBA beyond the
2.1TB limitation either will result in an error or simply the last readable LBA
(usually LBA 4294967295 [FFFFh]) depending on the actual hardware.  This
limitation can have important consequences.  For example, if you intended to
erase a 4TB drive, then only the first 2TB will actually get erased (or maybe
even twice!) and the last 2TB will remain untouched.  You should carefully
evaluate your system hardware to understand if your storage controllers provide
support for greater than 2.1TB.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

NOTE: Windows severely restricts downloading firmware to SATA drives.  Please
see the section below "Windows Restrictions Over SATA Firmware Downloads".
openSeaChest_Basics may not be fully functional on non-Seagate drives.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_Defect [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo openSeaChest_Defect --scan
        sudo openSeaChest_Defect -d /dev/sg2 -i
        sudo openSeaChest_Defect -d /dev/sg1 --shortDST --poll

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_Defect [-d <PD_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_Defect --scan
        openSeaChest_Defect -d PD0 -i
        openSeaChest_Defect -d PD1 --shortDST --poll

